Now that you've got a general idea on what are Azure static apps, let’s see when we can use it for:

- **Static hosting with custom domain and free certs**. Static hosting of your files is available via, for example, Azure Storage but also via Azure Static Web Apps. What makes the latter compelling is if you also have a custom domain, and you want to point to the site you're building. Azure Static Web Apps greatly facilities in this process. On top of that you get SSL certs for free.
- **A grow up story**. You might start with a simple company website. Then someone decides it needs a backend, an API. Also, you might be asked to secure the site via sign-in and even adding roles. Azure Static Web Apps is with you on this journey as API (via Azure Functions) can be added. You can also add authentication and authorization via Azure Active Directory or via social logins.
- **Statically generated sites**. Static sites today are mostly generated by a framework like Gatsby, Hugo or VuePress for example. You could deploy the generated static result, but Azure Static Web Apps supports these modern frameworks by building the site and deploying it, as part of the deployment workflow. In that sense, it simplifies your workflow.

Azure Static Web Apps provides more than just a hosting option for your static site, the service itself comes packed with a ton of built-in features, some of which are as follows:

- **Web hosting for static content** like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and images. – Integrated API support provided by Azure Functions with the option to link an existing Azure Functions app using a standard account.
- **First-class GitHub and Azure DevOps** integration where repository changes trigger builds and deployments. – Globally distributed static content, putting content closer to your users.
- **Generated staging versions** powered by pull requests enabling preview versions of your site before publishing and so on.

Azure static apps allow you to integrate it into Azure DevOps or GitHub, meaning you can have an ‘out of the box’ fully automated system, incorporating CI/CD from day 1, which is a key differentiator between other services.
